# TimeToCookUpAnswers

## Introduction
The recipes and ratings dataset contains recipes and their reviews and ratings posted since 2008 from the food.com website. My analysis will be centered around the question: what is the relationship between the cooking time and the average rating of recipes? Shorter cooking times may result in easier and quicker recipes, but that does not guarantee a high rating. On the other hand, longer cooking times may require more effort, which may result in better-tasting recipes. Readers of the website can benefit from this analysis as it can help them discern which recipes will be easier to make and which ones will be more time-consuming. It can also help them determine the ideal level of effort and time that each recipe requires to achieve the desired rating. 
I have chosen to work with the recipe and ratings dataset which contains information about different recipes and their reviews posted since 2008 on the website food.com. This dataset has 83,782 rows. The names of the columns that are relevant to my question are the minutes, name, and the average_rating columns. The minutes column provides the number of minutes it takes to prepare each recipe. The name column provides the recipe name and the average_rating column provides the average rating for each recipe.

## Cleaning And EDA
### Cleaning
First, I merged the recipe and the ratings datasets together into one dataframe. Then I calculated the average rating for each recipe using the groupby function and then I merged the data into the dataframe. In order to clean up the data I filled all the ratings of 0 with np.nan because having a rating of 0 means that the recipe has not yet been rated. In order to get an accurate average rating for each recipe, it is important to change the 0 values to null so that it does not affect the average rating of the recipe. Additionally, I cleaned up the nutrition colun by creating separate columns for all the values in the list. I added columns for calories, total fat, sugar, sodium, protein, saturated fat, and carbohydrates from the nutrition column. After separating the values from the nutrition column, I removed the nutrition column from the dataframe. Furthermore, for all the columns that contain a string list (tags, steps, and ingredients), I converted the type of the column to a list. I also got rid of the reviews column as it was needed for the rest of the assignment. 
